docs/V0.5.0_ROADMAP.md, before:

# v0.5.0 Feature Development Roadmap

## 🚀 Overview

This document outlines the feature development plan for `leptos-query-rs` v0.5.0, building on the solid TDD foundation established in v0.4.x. The focus is on enhanced functionality, better developer experience, and advanced features while maintaining the high quality standards.

## 🎯 Release Goals

### Primary Objectives
1. **Enhanced Persistence Backends**: Multiple storage options beyond memory
2. **Advanced DevTools**: Comprehensive debugging and monitoring tools
3. **Better SSR Support**: Improved server-side rendering capabilities
4. **Performance Optimizations**: Advanced caching and optimization strategies

### 🎉 **v0.4.2 Achievement: Complete TDD Infrastructure**
- **75+ comprehensive tests** across all testing categories
- **100% test pass rate** for core functionality
- **Enterprise-grade testing standards** implemented
- **Performance monitoring system** active and working
- **Comprehensive documentation** and guides created

### Secondary Objectives
1. **TypeScript Bindings**: JavaScript/TypeScript ecosystem integration
2. **Framework Integrations**: Popular framework adapters
3. **Community Tools**: Developer productivity enhancements

## 📅 Timeline

- **Phase 1**: Core Enhancements (Weeks 1-4)
- **Phase 2**: Advanced Features (Weeks 5-8)
- **Phase 3**: Integration & Polish (Weeks 9-12)
- **Target Release**: Q1 2025

## 🔧 Phase 1: Core Enhancements

### 1. Enhanced Persistence Backends

#### 1.1 Local Storage Backend
```rust
// New persistence backend for browser environments
pub struct LocalStorageBackend {
    prefix: String,
    ttl: Option<Duration>,
}

impl PersistenceBackend for LocalStorageBackend {
    async fn store(&self, key: &str, data: &[u8]) -> Result<(), PersistenceError> {
        // Implement localStorage persistence
    }
    
    async fn retrieve(&self, key: &str) -> Result<Option<Vec<u8>>, PersistenceError> {
        // Implement localStorage retrieval
    }
}
```

#### 1.2 IndexedDB Backend
```rust
// High-performance browser storage backend
pub struct IndexedDBBackend {
    db_name: String,
    store_name: String,
    version: u32,
}

impl PersistenceBackend for IndexedDBBackend {
    // Implement IndexedDB operations
}
```

#### 1.3 Redis Backend
```rust
// Server-side Redis persistence
pub struct RedisBackend {
    client: redis::Client,
    prefix: String,
    ttl: Option<Duration>,
}

impl PersistenceBackend for RedisBackend {
    // Implement Redis operations
}
```

### 1.2 Advanced Caching Strategies

#### 1.2.1 LRU Cache Implementation
```rust
pub struct LRUCache<K, V> {
    capacity: usize,
    cache: LinkedHashMap<K, V>,
}

impl<K, V> LRUCache<K, V> {
    pub fn new(capacity: usize) -> Self {
        Self {
            capacity,
            cache: LinkedHashMap::new(),
        }
    }
    
    pub fn get(&mut self, key: &K) -> Option<&V> {
        // Implement LRU logic
    }
}
```

#### 1.2.2 TTL-based Cache
```rust
pub struct TTLCache<K, V> {
    cache: HashMap<K, (V, Instant)>,
    default_ttl: Duration,
}

impl<K, V> TTLCache<K, V> {
    pub fn with_ttl(default_ttl: Duration) -> Self {
        Self {
            cache: HashMap::new(),
            default_ttl,
        }
    }
}
```

### 1.3 Query Optimization

#### 1.3.1 Query Deduplication Enhancement
```rust
pub struct EnhancedDeduplication {
    active_queries: HashMap<QueryKey, QueryState>,
    deduplication_window: Duration,
}

impl EnhancedDeduplication {
    pub fn deduplicate<T>(&mut self, key: QueryKey, query_fn: impl Future<Output = T>) -> DeduplicationResult<T> {
        // Enhanced deduplication logic
    }
}
```

## 🚀 Phase 2: Advanced Features

### 2.1 Advanced DevTools

#### 2.1.1 Real-time Query Monitor
```rust
pub struct QueryMonitor {
    event_stream: mpsc::UnboundedReceiver<QueryEvent>,
    subscribers: Vec<Box<dyn QueryEventSubscriber>>,
}

#[derive(Debug, Clone)]
pub enum QueryEvent {
    QueryStarted { key: QueryKey, timestamp: Instant },
    QueryCompleted { key: QueryKey, duration: Duration, result: QueryResult },
    QueryFailed { key: QueryKey, error: QueryError, duration: Duration },
    CacheHit { key: QueryKey, timestamp: Instant },
    CacheMiss { key: QueryKey, timestamp: Instant },
}
```

#### 2.1.2 Performance Profiler
```rust
pub struct QueryProfiler {
    metrics: Arc<RwLock<QueryMetrics>>,
    sampling_rate: f64,
}

#[derive(Debug, Default)]
pub struct QueryMetrics {
    total_queries: u64,
    cache_hits: u64,
    cache_misses: u64,
    average_query_time: Duration,
    slowest_queries: Vec<SlowQueryRecord>,
}
```

### 2.2 Better SSR Support

#### 2.2.1 Hydration State Management
```rust
pub struct HydrationManager {
    server_state: Arc<RwLock<ServerState>>,
    client_state: Arc<RwLock<ClientState>>,
    hydration_queue: VecDeque<HydrationTask>,
}

impl HydrationManager {
    pub async fn hydrate(&mut self) -> Result<(), HydrationError> {
        // Implement hydration logic
    }
    
    pub fn queue_hydration(&mut self, task: HydrationTask) {
        self.hydration_queue.push_back(task);
    }
}
```

#### 2.2.2 Server-Side Query Execution
```rust
pub struct SSRQueryExecutor {
    cache: Arc<RwLock<QueryCache>>,
    execution_context: ExecutionContext,
}

impl SSRQueryExecutor {
    pub async fn execute_on_server<T>(&self, query: Query<T>) -> Result<T, QueryError> {
        // Server-side query execution
    }
}
```

### 2.3 Advanced Query Patterns

#### 2.3.1 Query Composition
```rust
pub trait QueryComposable {
    fn and<T>(self, other: Query<T>) -> CompositeQuery<Self, Query<T>>;
    fn or<T>(self, other: Query<T>) -> UnionQuery<Self, Query<T>>;
    fn then<T>(self, f: impl FnOnce(Self::Output) -> Query<T>) -> ChainedQuery<Self, T>;
}

// Example usage
let user_posts = user_query
    .and(posts_query)
    .then(|(user, posts)| {
        // Create a new query based on previous results
        related_posts_query(user.id, posts.ids())
    });
```

#### 2.3.2 Conditional Queries
```rust
pub struct ConditionalQuery<T> {
    condition: Box<dyn Fn() -> bool + Send + Sync>,
    query: Query<T>,
    fallback: Option<Query<T>>,
}

impl<T> ConditionalQuery<T> {
    pub fn when(condition: impl Fn() -> bool + Send + Sync + 'static, query: Query<T>) -> Self {
        Self {
            condition: Box::new(condition),
            query,
            fallback: None,
        }
    }
    
    pub fn otherwise(mut self, fallback: Query<T>) -> Self {
        self.fallback = Some(fallback);
        self
    }
}
```

## 🔌 Phase 3: Integration & Polish

### 3.1 TypeScript Bindings

#### 3.1.1 WebAssembly Interface
```typescript
// TypeScript definitions for leptos-query-rs
export interface QueryClient {
  query<T>(key: string[], queryFn: () => Promise<T>): QueryResult<T>;
  mutate<T>(key: string[], mutationFn: (data: T) => Promise<T>): MutationResult<T>;
  invalidate(pattern: QueryKeyPattern): Promise<void>;
  clear(): void;
}

export interface QueryResult<T> {
  data: T | undefined;
  isLoading: boolean;
  error: Error | null;
  refetch: () => Promise<void>;
}

export interface MutationResult<T> {
  data: T | undefined;
  isLoading: boolean;
  error: Error | null;
  mutate: (data: T) => Promise<void>;
}
```

#### 3.1.2 Node.js Integration
```typescript
// Node.js specific bindings
export class NodeQueryClient extends QueryClient {
  constructor(options: NodeQueryClientOptions) {
    super();
    // Node.js specific initialization
  }
  
  async persistToFile(path: string): Promise<void> {
    // File-based persistence
  }
  
  async loadFromFile(path: string): Promise<void> {
    // Load from file
  }
}
```

### 3.2 Framework Integrations

#### 3.2.1 React Integration
```typescript
// React hooks for leptos-query-rs
export function useQuery<T>(
  key: string[],
  queryFn: () => Promise<T>,
  options?: QueryOptions
): QueryResult<T> {
  // React-specific implementation
}

export function useMutation<T>(
  mutationFn: (data: T) => Promise<T>,
  options?: MutationOptions
): MutationResult<T> {
  // React-specific implementation
}
```

#### 3.2.2 Vue Integration
```typescript
// Vue composables for leptos-query-rs
export function useQuery<T>(
  key: string[],
  queryFn: () => Promise<T>,
  options?: QueryOptions
): Ref<QueryResult<T>> {
  // Vue-specific implementation
}
```

### 3.3 Community Tools

#### 3.3.1 CLI Tool
```rust
// Command-line interface for leptos-query-rs
#[derive(Parser)]
#[command(name = "leptos-query")]
#[command(about = "Leptos Query CLI tool")]
struct Cli {
    #[command(subcommand)]
    command: Commands,
}

#[derive(Subcommand)]
enum Commands {
    /// Generate TypeScript bindings
    GenerateTs {
        #[arg(short, long)]
        output: PathBuf,
    },
    /// Run performance benchmarks
    Bench {
        #[arg(short, long)]
        output: Option<PathBuf>,
    },
    /// Validate query schemas
    Validate {
        #[arg(short, long)]
        schema: PathBuf,
    },
}
```

#### 3.3.2 VS Code Extension
```typescript
// VS Code extension for leptos-query-rs
export function activate(context: vscode.ExtensionContext) {
    // Query key autocompletion
    const queryKeyProvider = vscode.languages.registerCompletionItemProvider(
        'rust',
        new QueryKeyCompletionProvider(),
        '"', "'"
    );
    
    // Query performance insights
    const performanceProvider = vscode.languages.registerCodeLensProvider(
        'rust',
        new QueryPerformanceProvider()
    );
    
    context.subscriptions.push(queryKeyProvider, performanceProvider);
}
```

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

### 3.1 Enhanced Test Coverage

#### 3.1.1 Property-Based Testing
```rust
proptest! {
    #[test]
    fn test_persistence_backend_roundtrip(
        data in prop::collection::vec(any::<u8>(), 0..1000)
    ) {
        let backend = LocalStorageBackend::new("test");
        let key = "test_key";
        
        // Test persistence roundtrip
        backend.store(key, &data).await.unwrap();
        let retrieved = backend.retrieve(key).await.unwrap().unwrap();
        
        assert_eq!(data, retrieved);
    }
}
```

#### 3.1.2 Performance Testing
```rust
#[bench]
fn bench_persistence_backend(b: &mut Bencher) {
    let backend = LocalStorageBackend::new("bench");
    let data = vec![0u8; 1000];
    
    b.iter(|| {
        backend.store("bench_key", &data).await.unwrap();
        backend.retrieve("bench_key").await.unwrap();
    });
}
```

### 3.2 Integration Testing

#### 3.2.1 End-to-End Testing
```rust
#[tokio::test]
async fn test_full_query_lifecycle() {
    let client = QueryClient::new();
    let query = client.query(
        || vec!["users", "1"],
        || async { fetch_user(1).await },
        QueryOptions::default()
    );
    
    // Test complete lifecycle
    assert!(query.is_loading.get());
    
    // Wait for completion
    while query.is_loading.get() {
        tokio::time::sleep(Duration::from_millis(10)).await;
    }
    
    assert!(query.data.get().is_some());
    assert!(query.error.get().is_none());
}
```

## 📊 Success Metrics

### 3.1 Performance Targets
- **Query Execution**: < 1ms for simple queries
- **Cache Operations**: < 100μs for cache hits
- **Memory Usage**: < 10MB for typical usage
- **Startup Time**: < 50ms for client initialization

### 3.2 Quality Targets
- **Test Coverage**: > 95% for new features
- **Performance Regressions**: 0% tolerance
- **Documentation Coverage**: 100% for public APIs
- **Example Coverage**: All new features demonstrated

## 🚨 Risk Mitigation

### 3.1 Technical Risks
- **Complexity Management**: Break features into smaller, testable components
- **Performance Impact**: Continuous benchmarking and regression detection
- **API Stability**: Comprehensive testing and backward compatibility

### 3.2 Timeline Risks
- **Feature Scope**: Prioritize core features over nice-to-haves
- **Testing Time**: Allocate sufficient time for comprehensive testing
- **Documentation**: Plan documentation updates alongside feature development

## 📚 Documentation Plan

### 3.1 API Documentation
- **Rust API**: Comprehensive rustdoc coverage
- **TypeScript API**: JSDoc and TypeScript definitions
- **Examples**: Real-world usage examples for all features

### 3.2 User Guides
- **Getting Started**: Quick start guide for new users
- **Advanced Usage**: Complex patterns and best practices
- **Migration Guide**: Upgrading from v0.4.x to v0.5.0

### 3.3 Developer Guides
- **Contributing**: How to contribute to the project
- **Architecture**: High-level system design
- **Testing**: Testing strategies and guidelines

## 🎯 Release Criteria

### 3.1 Must Have
- [ ] All core features implemented and tested
- [ ] Performance targets met
- [ ] Comprehensive test coverage (>95%)
- [ ] Documentation complete
- [ ] Examples working

### 3.2 Should Have
- [ ] TypeScript bindings
- [ ] Framework integrations
- [ ] Community tools
- [ ] Performance monitoring

### 3.3 Nice to Have
- [ ] Advanced DevTools
- [ ] Multiple persistence backends
- [ ] Enhanced SSR support

## 🔄 Iteration Plan

### 3.1 Weekly Sprints
- **Sprint 1-4**: Core enhancements and persistence backends
- **Sprint 5-8**: Advanced features and DevTools
- **Sprint 9-12**: Integration, polish, and testing

### 3.2 Review Points
- **Week 4**: Phase 1 completion review
- **Week 8**: Phase 2 completion review
- **Week 12**: Final release preparation

---

**This roadmap represents an ambitious but achievable plan for v0.5.0. The focus is on building upon the solid TDD foundation while delivering significant new value to users.**

Commit message:

feat: release v0.5.0 - The Testing Release
- 111+ tests passing with comprehensive coverage
- API stability and Leptos 0.8 compatibility validated
- Pre-commit hooks and CI/CD pipeline added
- Real-world examples and documentation complete
- Security audit passing with performance benchmarks
- Full backward compatibility maintained

Ready for production use and community feedback.

docs/V0.5.0_ROADMAP.md, after:

# v0.5.0 Feature Development Roadmap

## 🚀 Overview

This document outlines the feature development plan for `leptos-query-rs` v0.5.0, building on the solid TDD foundation established in v0.4.x. The focus is on enhanced functionality, better developer experience, and advanced features while maintaining the high quality standards.

## 🎯 Release Goals

### Primary Objectives
1. **Enhanced Persistence Backends**: Multiple storage options beyond memory
2. **Advanced DevTools**: Comprehensive debugging and monitoring tools
3. **Better SSR Support**: Improved server-side rendering capabilities
4. **Performance Optimizations**: Advanced caching and optimization strategies

### 🎉 **v0.4.2 Achievement: Complete TDD Infrastructure**
- **75+ comprehensive tests** across all testing categories
- **100% test pass rate** for core functionality
- **Enterprise-grade testing standards** implemented
- **Performance monitoring system** active and working
- **Comprehensive documentation** and guides created

### 🚀 **Advanced Features Implementation Plan**
- **Complete roadmap** for advanced features in `docs/ADVANCED_FEATURES_ROADMAP.md`
- **TDD implementation** for all advanced features
- **Feature parity** with mature React Query alternatives
- **20-week implementation plan** with clear phases

### Secondary Objectives
1. **TypeScript Bindings**: JavaScript/TypeScript ecosystem integration
2. **Framework Integrations**: Popular framework adapters
3. **Community Tools**: Developer productivity enhancements

## 📅 Timeline

- **Phase 1**: Core Enhancements (Weeks 1-4)
- **Phase 2**: Advanced Features (Weeks 5-8)
- **Phase 3**: Integration & Polish (Weeks 9-12)
- **Target Release**: Q1 2025

## 🔧 Phase 1: Core Enhancements

### 1. Enhanced Persistence Backends

#### 1.1 Local Storage Backend
```rust
// New persistence backend for browser environments
pub struct LocalStorageBackend {
    prefix: String,
    ttl: Option<Duration>,
}

impl PersistenceBackend for LocalStorageBackend {
    async fn store(&self, key: &str, data: &[u8]) -> Result<(), PersistenceError> {
        // Implement localStorage persistence
    }
    
    async fn retrieve(&self, key: &str) -> Result<Option<Vec<u8>>, PersistenceError> {
        // Implement localStorage retrieval
    }
}
```

#### 1.2 IndexedDB Backend
```rust
// High-performance browser storage backend
pub struct IndexedDBBackend {
    db_name: String,
    store_name: String,
    version: u32,
}

impl PersistenceBackend for IndexedDBBackend {
    // Implement IndexedDB operations
}
```

#### 1.3 Redis Backend
```rust
// Server-side Redis persistence
pub struct RedisBackend {
    client: redis::Client,
    prefix: String,
    ttl: Option<Duration>,
}

impl PersistenceBackend for RedisBackend {
    // Implement Redis operations
}
```

### 1.2 Advanced Caching Strategies

#### 1.2.1 LRU Cache Implementation
```rust
pub struct LRUCache<K, V> {
    capacity: usize,
    cache: LinkedHashMap<K, V>,
}

impl<K, V> LRUCache<K, V> {
    pub fn new(capacity: usize) -> Self {
        Self {
            capacity,
            cache: LinkedHashMap::new(),
        }
    }
    
    pub fn get(&mut self, key: &K) -> Option<&V> {
        // Implement LRU logic
    }
}
```

#### 1.2.2 TTL-based Cache
```rust
pub struct TTLCache<K, V> {
    cache: HashMap<K, (V, Instant)>,
    default_ttl: Duration,
}

impl<K, V> TTLCache<K, V> {
    pub fn with_ttl(default_ttl: Duration) -> Self {
        Self {
            cache: HashMap::new(),
            default_ttl,
        }
    }
}
```

### 1.3 Query Optimization

#### 1.3.1 Query Deduplication Enhancement
```rust
pub struct EnhancedDeduplication {
    active_queries: HashMap<QueryKey, QueryState>,
    deduplication_window: Duration,
}

impl EnhancedDeduplication {
    pub fn deduplicate<T>(&mut self, key: QueryKey, query_fn: impl Future<Output = T>) -> DeduplicationResult<T> {
        // Enhanced deduplication logic
    }
}
```

## 🚀 Phase 2: Advanced Features

### 2.1 Advanced DevTools

#### 2.1.1 Real-time Query Monitor
```rust
pub struct QueryMonitor {
    event_stream: mpsc::UnboundedReceiver<QueryEvent>,
    subscribers: Vec<Box<dyn QueryEventSubscriber>>,
}

#[derive(Debug, Clone)]
pub enum QueryEvent {
    QueryStarted { key: QueryKey, timestamp: Instant },
    QueryCompleted { key: QueryKey, duration: Duration, result: QueryResult },
    QueryFailed { key: QueryKey, error: QueryError, duration: Duration },
    CacheHit { key: QueryKey, timestamp: Instant },
    CacheMiss { key: QueryKey, timestamp: Instant },
}
```

#### 2.1.2 Performance Profiler
```rust
pub struct QueryProfiler {
    metrics: Arc<RwLock<QueryMetrics>>,
    sampling_rate: f64,
}

#[derive(Debug, Default)]
pub struct QueryMetrics {
    total_queries: u64,
    cache_hits: u64,
    cache_misses: u64,
    average_query_time: Duration,
    slowest_queries: Vec<SlowQueryRecord>,
}
```

### 2.2 Better SSR Support

#### 2.2.1 Hydration State Management
```rust
pub struct HydrationManager {
    server_state: Arc<RwLock<ServerState>>,
    client_state: Arc<RwLock<ClientState>>,
    hydration_queue: VecDeque<HydrationTask>,
}

impl HydrationManager {
    pub async fn hydrate(&mut self) -> Result<(), HydrationError> {
        // Implement hydration logic
    }
    
    pub fn queue_hydration(&mut self, task: HydrationTask) {
        self.hydration_queue.push_back(task);
    }
}
```

#### 2.2.2 Server-Side Query Execution
```rust
pub struct SSRQueryExecutor {
    cache: Arc<RwLock<QueryCache>>,
    execution_context: ExecutionContext,
}

impl SSRQueryExecutor {
    pub async fn execute_on_server<T>(&self, query: Query<T>) -> Result<T, QueryError> {
        // Server-side query execution
    }
}
```

### 2.3 Advanced Query Patterns

#### 2.3.1 Query Composition
```rust
pub trait QueryComposable {
    fn and<T>(self, other: Query<T>) -> CompositeQuery<Self, Query<T>>;
    fn or<T>(self, other: Query<T>) -> UnionQuery<Self, Query<T>>;
    fn then<T>(self, f: impl FnOnce(Self::Output) -> Query<T>) -> ChainedQuery<Self, T>;
}

// Example usage
let user_posts = user_query
    .and(posts_query)
    .then(|(user, posts)| {
        // Create a new query based on previous results
        related_posts_query(user.id, posts.ids())
    });
```

#### 2.3.2 Conditional Queries
```rust
pub struct ConditionalQuery<T> {
    condition: Box<dyn Fn() -> bool + Send + Sync>,
    query: Query<T>,
    fallback: Option<Query<T>>,
}

impl<T> ConditionalQuery<T> {
    pub fn when(condition: impl Fn() -> bool + Send + Sync + 'static, query: Query<T>) -> Self {
        Self {
            condition: Box::new(condition),
            query,
            fallback: None,
        }
    }
    
    pub fn otherwise(mut self, fallback: Query<T>) -> Self {
        self.fallback = Some(fallback);
        self
    }
}
```

## 🔌 Phase 3: Integration & Polish

### 3.1 TypeScript Bindings

#### 3.1.1 WebAssembly Interface
```typescript
// TypeScript definitions for leptos-query-rs
export interface QueryClient {
  query<T>(key: string[], queryFn: () => Promise<T>): QueryResult<T>;
  mutate<T>(key: string[], mutationFn: (data: T) => Promise<T>): MutationResult<T>;
  invalidate(pattern: QueryKeyPattern): Promise<void>;
  clear(): void;
}

export interface QueryResult<T> {
  data: T | undefined;
  isLoading: boolean;
  error: Error | null;
  refetch: () => Promise<void>;
}

export interface MutationResult<T> {
  data: T | undefined;
  isLoading: boolean;
  error: Error | null;
  mutate: (data: T) => Promise<void>;
}
```

#### 3.1.2 Node.js Integration
```typescript
// Node.js specific bindings
export class NodeQueryClient extends QueryClient {
  constructor(options: NodeQueryClientOptions) {
    super();
    // Node.js specific initialization
  }
  
  async persistToFile(path: string): Promise<void> {
    // File-based persistence
  }
  
  async loadFromFile(path: string): Promise<void> {
    // Load from file
  }
}
```

### 3.2 Framework Integrations

#### 3.2.1 React Integration
```typescript
// React hooks for leptos-query-rs
export function useQuery<T>(
  key: string[],
  queryFn: () => Promise<T>,
  options?: QueryOptions
): QueryResult<T> {
  // React-specific implementation
}

export function useMutation<T>(
  mutationFn: (data: T) => Promise<T>,
  options?: MutationOptions
): MutationResult<T> {
  // React-specific implementation
}
```

#### 3.2.2 Vue Integration
```typescript
// Vue composables for leptos-query-rs
export function useQuery<T>(
  key: string[],
  queryFn: () => Promise<T>,
  options?: QueryOptions
): Ref<QueryResult<T>> {
  // Vue-specific implementation
}
```

### 3.3 Community Tools

#### 3.3.1 CLI Tool
```rust
// Command-line interface for leptos-query-rs
#[derive(Parser)]
#[command(name = "leptos-query")]
#[command(about = "Leptos Query CLI tool")]
struct Cli {
    #[command(subcommand)]
    command: Commands,
}

#[derive(Subcommand)]
enum Commands {
    /// Generate TypeScript bindings
    GenerateTs {
        #[arg(short, long)]
        output: PathBuf,
    },
    /// Run performance benchmarks
    Bench {
        #[arg(short, long)]
        output: Option<PathBuf>,
    },
    /// Validate query schemas
    Validate {
        #[arg(short, long)]
        schema: PathBuf,
    },
}
```

#### 3.3.2 VS Code Extension
```typescript
// VS Code extension for leptos-query-rs
export function activate(context: vscode.ExtensionContext) {
    // Query key autocompletion
    const queryKeyProvider = vscode.languages.registerCompletionItemProvider(
        'rust',
        new QueryKeyCompletionProvider(),
        '"', "'"
    );
    
    // Query performance insights
    const performanceProvider = vscode.languages.registerCodeLensProvider(
        'rust',
        new QueryPerformanceProvider()
    );
    
    context.subscriptions.push(queryKeyProvider, performanceProvider);
}
```

## 🧪 Testing Strategy

### 3.1 Enhanced Test Coverage

#### 3.1.1 Property-Based Testing
```rust
proptest! {
    #[test]
    fn test_persistence_backend_roundtrip(
        data in prop::collection::vec(any::<u8>(), 0..1000)
    ) {
        let backend = LocalStorageBackend::new("test");
        let key = "test_key";
        
        // Test persistence roundtrip
        backend.store(key, &data).await.unwrap();
        let retrieved = backend.retrieve(key).await.unwrap().unwrap();
        
        assert_eq!(data, retrieved);
    }
}
```

#### 3.1.2 Performance Testing
```rust
#[bench]
fn bench_persistence_backend(b: &mut Bencher) {
    let backend = LocalStorageBackend::new("bench");
    let data = vec![0u8; 1000];
    
    b.iter(|| {
        backend.store("bench_key", &data).await.unwrap();
        backend.retrieve("bench_key").await.unwrap();
    });
}
```

### 3.2 Integration Testing

#### 3.2.1 End-to-End Testing
```rust
#[tokio::test]
async fn test_full_query_lifecycle() {
    let client = QueryClient::new();
    let query = client.query(
        || vec!["users", "1"],
        || async { fetch_user(1).await },
        QueryOptions::default()
    );
    
    // Test complete lifecycle
    assert!(query.is_loading.get());
    
    // Wait for completion
    while query.is_loading.get() {
        tokio::time::sleep(Duration::from_millis(10)).await;
    }
    
    assert!(query.data.get().is_some());
    assert!(query.error.get().is_none());
}
```

## 📊 Success Metrics

### 3.1 Performance Targets
- **Query Execution**: < 1ms for simple queries
- **Cache Operations**: < 100μs for cache hits
- **Memory Usage**: < 10MB for typical usage
- **Startup Time**: < 50ms for client initialization

### 3.2 Quality Targets
- **Test Coverage**: > 95% for new features
- **Performance Regressions**: 0% tolerance
- **Documentation Coverage**: 100% for public APIs
- **Example Coverage**: All new features demonstrated

## 🚨 Risk Mitigation

### 3.1 Technical Risks
- **Complexity Management**: Break features into smaller, testable components
- **Performance Impact**: Continuous benchmarking and regression detection
- **API Stability**: Comprehensive testing and backward compatibility

### 3.2 Timeline Risks
- **Feature Scope**: Prioritize core features over nice-to-haves
- **Testing Time**: Allocate sufficient time for comprehensive testing
- **Documentation**: Plan documentation updates alongside feature development

## 📚 Documentation Plan

### 3.1 API Documentation
- **Rust API**: Comprehensive rustdoc coverage
- **TypeScript API**: JSDoc and TypeScript definitions
- **Examples**: Real-world usage examples for all features

### 3.2 User Guides
- **Getting Started**: Quick start guide for new users
- **Advanced Usage**: Complex patterns and best practices
- **Migration Guide**: Upgrading from v0.4.x to v0.5.0

### 3.3 Developer Guides
- **Contributing**: How to contribute to the project
- **Architecture**: High-level system design
- **Testing**: Testing strategies and guidelines

## 🎯 Release Criteria

### 3.1 Must Have
- [ ] All core features implemented and tested
- [ ] Performance targets met
- [ ] Comprehensive test coverage (>95%)
- [ ] Documentation complete
- [ ] Examples working

### 3.2 Should Have
- [ ] TypeScript bindings
- [ ] Framework integrations
- [ ] Community tools
- [ ] Performance monitoring

### 3.3 Nice to Have
- [ ] Advanced DevTools
- [ ] Multiple persistence backends
- [ ] Enhanced SSR support

## 🔄 Iteration Plan

### 3.1 Weekly Sprints
- **Sprint 1-4**: Core enhancements and persistence backends
- **Sprint 5-8**: Advanced features and DevTools
- **Sprint 9-12**: Integration, polish, and testing

### 3.2 Review Points
- **Week 4**: Phase 1 completion review
- **Week 8**: Phase 2 completion review
- **Week 12**: Final release preparation

---

**This roadmap represents an ambitious but achievable plan for v0.5.0. The focus is on building upon the solid TDD foundation while delivering significant new value to users.**
